## Week 6 - Big Tech Stock Prices

This week the data comes from Yahoo Finance via [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/evangower/big-tech-stock-prices). Kaggle is an online community for data scientists and a rich resource for data sets. It hosts regular competitions (with real cash money) - I've always been curious but I'm also not a "real" data scientist, so have never had to opportunity to play around with Kaggle data. Untill now!

The data set tracks stock prices of 14 tech companies since 2010. 

My hypothesis for the graph below was that big changes in daily price would correlate with a large volume of stock trading on that day, so I analysed the change in share price compared to the number of shares traded on that day. It turns out that small changes in stock price is more likely to relate to large volumes being traded. However, there is also a strong relationship over time with, in general, a larger volume of stock being traded in earlier years (2010-2011) than recently. The one company that seems to buck this trend is IBM, which seems to have a fairly wide range of stock being traded at a variety of prices.

![A facetted series of dot plots showing the price change in stock over one day on the x-axis, versus the volume of that stock traded on that specific day on the y-axis. There are 14 facets representing 14 different tech companies. The facets are arranged in decreasing volume of stock traded starting with Apple, then Tesla, Amazon, Alphabet, NVIDIA, Microsoft, Intel, Cisco Systems, Meta, Netflic, Oracle, Salesforce, IBM and Adobe. For most companies the volume of stock traded creates a peak - high volume - around the point where the value of the share over a given day doesn't change. Any large change in value - either high or low - shows a concommitant lower volume of stock traded on that day](https://github.com/PlantsGenesBugs/TidyTuesday/blob/main/2023/week%206%20-%20big%20tech%20stocks/BigTechStock.png)
