## Week 6

This week #TidyTuesday has joined the [Tuskegee Airmen Challenge](https://github.com/lang1023/Tuskegee-Airman-Challenge/blob/main/Tuskegee%20Airmen%20Challenge.xlsx) using data sourced from the Commemorative Air Force. The data set details the African American pilots who were the first ever African American aviators in the US Armed Forces.

There is a wealth of knowledge over at the Tidy Tuesday Github. I found myself chasing down many rabbit holes for incredible stories, such as the incredible life of Welton Taylor who was a Liaison pilot. Liaison pilots were the glue that held things together during WWII - Taylor used air surveillance to help direct field artillery fire. Liaison pilots were, themselves, unarmed. After the war, Taylor went on to complete a PhD in microbiology. If you work in a microbiology lab, you might be familiar with the nutrient agar that Taylor developed for the study of *Salmonella* and *Shigella* baterial species: XLD agar.

In addition to honouring the Tuskegee Airmen, Tidy Tuesday is hooking in with the W.E.B. DuBois challenge, which is live for 10 weeks. W.E.B DuBois (1868-1963) was an incredible historian, sociologist, civil rights activist, author and many other things. His striking data visualisations about the life of African Americans during his lifetime show a great skill in conveying information through graphics.

I wanted to produce 2 graphs this week: one a reproduction of W.E.B. DuBois' wonderful spiral graph, using the Tuskegee Airmen Challenge data set. This proved too hard to do in a couple of days, and so I'll leave that as a long-term project and Tweet when I've succeeded. The second graph I wanted to do was one looking at the number of aerial victories of the Tuskegee Airmen during WWII, using a DuBois-inspired palette. Below you can see my analysis. There are some values missing as I removed missing values from some fields. However, one name appears more than once: 2nd Lt. Edward L Toppins. From [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edward_L._Toppins): "Toppins is considered one of the best pilots to have emerged from the Tuskegee program. He earned the Distinguished Flying Cross, the Air Medal with 5 clusters, a Victory Medal, an Eastern Theater Offensive Ribbon with 7 battle stars, and an American Defense recognition. Known among by his peers as a "pilot's pilot" and "almost a daredevil," Toppins completed 141 missions, destroying four enemy aircraft with one probable."

