## Week 12

This week (and a bit late to the party for me, due to more-than-usual data analysis at work!) we're looking at baby names. In particular, the number of babies (>5) given a particular name from 1880 - 2017 in the USA, by binary sex. The data is available in a package in R, with more information about it available [here](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/babynames/index.html). You can also access the TidyTuesday Github [here](https://github.com/rfordatascience/tidytuesday/blob/master/data/2022/2022-03-22/readme.md). 

This data set is enormous and has the ability to make RStudio crash. On Twitter, [Ícaro Bernardes](https://twitter.com/IcaroBSC/status/1506316289270292494) gave me a tip to use [data.table](https://atrebas.github.io/post/2019-03-03-datatable-dplyr/) which works differently with the data, minimizing RAM requirements and making it less likely that your computer dies. In the end I split the large data set into smaller data sets and worked with that, but in future this tip will definitely come in handy when I don't have this option.

I had a LOT of fun with this data set: I spent at least an hour just filtering and grouping, and drawing preliminary graphs. I looked at the classic "names shared between males and females over time" analysis, looked up my own name (from a lowly 5 mentions around 1960, to a whopping 33 in 1999!). I then looked at the least frequently used names for girls, and discovered a few truly interesting names, such as Onezia (probably "on-EEZ-ia", but perhaps also a woman who likes to wear onesies?), Pantha (only 5 girls in 1888 were given that name and nobody else ever again, sadly),  and Litta (5 girls blessed with that name in 1889 before people realised it might not be wise).

Somewhere in my exploratory analyses I spotted the name Merida. In my world, Merida is a [bike brand](https://www.merida-bikes.com/en-gb), so I was curious to see how far back the name-for-babies started. The pattern revealed an interesting spike after the year 2010, so I did a bit of Google sleuthing and was reminded that Merida was indeed the wonderful main character of the Disney Pixar movie ["Brave"](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt1217209/) (it is awesome - worth a watch!). (I also ran into an [amusing thread](https://www.mumsnet.com/Talk/baby_names/1245728-Merida) on mumsnet asking if the name sounds like a contraceptive coil or not, with many helpfully replying that it sounds like a Vauxhall...)

So I asked the question:

**How does the release of a Disney Princess film affect the names of babies born in that year (and subsequent years)?** Below, the answer looking at the 12 canonical Disney Princesses, namely Snow White, Cinderella, Aurora, Ariel, Belle, Jasmine, Pocahontas, Mulan, Tiana, Rapunzel, Merida, and Moana.

Some movies seem to have influenced baby names more directly (Ariel, Jasmine, Moana and Merida all increase around the year of release of their related films). However, other names never made the transfer from big screen to real life (Aurora, Pocahontas, Rapunzel). For some of these there are clear cultural reasons why. Other names, like Belle, Cinderella and Tiana were already in circulation before a Disney Princess movie was released. Tiana surged a bit around 2009, whilst Belle is a name that is still steadily increasing - almost certainly due to other factors. The name Mulan seems to be on the increase - Disney released a live action film "Mulan" in 2020, so it's possible people were inspired in the run-up to the release.

I'll finish with a shout-out to the Rapunzels out there. You are rare beings: there were 5 of you in 1959, and 6 in 2017 (the last year in the data set), and none in-between.

![11 point graphs showing the number of babies given one of 11 Disney Princess names between 1880 and 2017. The Disney Princesses are Snow White, Cinderella, Aurora, Ariel, Belle, Jasmine, Pocahontas, Mulan, Tiana, Rapunzel, Merida, and Moana. No babies have been called Snow White. All other names are represented. Ariel, Jasmine, Moana and Merida all increase around the year of release of their related films. The release of films relating to Sleeping Beauty (Aurora), Pocahontas and Rapunzel (Tangled) didn't seem to influence names much, although there were 7 Rapunzels born in 2017. Belle, Cinderella and Tiana were already generally used before films featuring these princesses were released, although they seem to have caused a resurgence in usage of the name.](https://github.com/PlantsGenesBugs/TidyTuesday/blob/main/2022/week12/babynames.png)

